Hello everyone. In this video, we'll be going over IDEs
and also how to use a command line to create a simple program.
We'll be comparing Text-based IDEs versus GUI-based IDEs or graphical IDEs.
So, for our Text-based example,
we'll be using Vim.
Again this isn't the only option out there.
There's Emacs, Nano, but we're just using this for our example.
And for our GUI-based IDE,
we'll be using Eclipse as our example.
And again, there's other IDEs out there or graphical IDEs out there,
we're just using this one.
And after that, we'll be doing a demo walkthrough of creating a program,
and compiling, and running on using each.
So, Andrew will first start out with talking about
the comparison of Vim to Eclipse. So, yeah.
We'll be comparing a Text-based IDE versus a GUI-based IDE which is a graphical IDE.
And the pros and cons of each and kind of each comparison.
And after that, we'll be doing a demo of creating
a program and executing it on both the Text-based and GUI-based.
So for our Text-based IDE,
we'll be using Vim.
This isn't the only one out there.
There's other ones such as Nano and Emacs.
We're just using this for our example.
And for our GUI-based IDE,
we'll be using Eclipse.
Again, not the only one out there,
there's other ones, just for our example.
So, I'll let Andrew start out with the description of Vim.
So, one advantage of Vim is that it's faster than
a GUI-based IDE because it doesn't have all the graphical interfaces that Eclipse has.
So it just runs instantaneously,
but it's a little bit more complicated.
There's a learning curve to it.
There's an argument to be made that it's a little simpler,
but in most cases, it's more complex.
Another advantage is that a lot of the work will be done on the terminal itself.
So, you'll be using the terminal to go through all the files and see where everything is.
So it's more convenient to have everything on the terminal usually.
It is widely recognized.
A lot of companies look for your knowledge of
Vim and a lot of people expect you to have this knowledge.
So it might be important for you to know Vim or at least know some parts of it.
Another cool thing is that there are many resources
online to help you even though it has a learning curve to it.
And this will help you get through some of
the troubles that you might have at the beginning of learning Vim.
Another disadvantage to Vim is that you need to learn
all the compilers and the running tools that you might not need in a GUI-based IDE.
And this is because the GUI-based IDEs already have all these integrated for
you while in Vim you have to learn about these on your own.
So we'll look at those more when we actually go through the walkthrough.
So I'll be talking about Eclipse. It's much easier to use.
It's more like using like a Word processor than creating a program.
It's got easy text editors, save buttons.
One benefit is that when you're using a lot
of functions in different classes and objects,
it helps you autocomplete what you're going to write.
It can think of, you started an "S" so you might do like system or that method.
And it helps deal with dependencies so that's you
doing a large project and you rely on a lot of libraries.
It helps you just quickly import those so you can use them.
There are many options to choose from again. Eclipse isn't the only one.
So, you can use your favorite search engine and find the one that's right for you.
It's a simple option to run the program often.
Oftentimes, it's just clicking on the Play or Run button and then it
compiles and runs it for you and shows the output right there.
We'll be going over a demo and Andrew will be taking over the Vim demo.
So, before we go on this demo,
we would like to notify you guys that this isn't a Vim tutorial.
It's just showing you the pros of Vim and the cons of Vim.
So, if you want to learn more about Vim itself,
we will be talking about some resources later.
So, to get started,
we want to type in Vim,
followed by the name of the file to open the file or to create a file.
So we created a file called, helloworld.java already.
So, here's the "Hello World" application.
So there are two modes to Vim. There is the command mode and the insert mode.
And the command mode basically allows you to copy paste text,
save the file, quit the file and more commands.
The insert mode actually allows you to insert text into the document.
So, we are in command mode and we want to get to insert mode,
so we would be pressing either A or I.
So let's press "I" to get to insert mode.
And, as you can see in the lower left-hand corner,
there's the word "Insert."
So this means that we are able to insert text into the file.
So let's enter some text.
And, as you can see that something is written on the file itself and it's just gibberish.
But Vim, unlike other IDEs,
won't tell you like that.
It isn't a valid statement,
so let's just delete it as we don't want this in our code.
And then, to save the file,
we want to go back to command mode and to do this in our insert mode,
we would just press "Escape" and then we would
type in colon W as it shows in the lower left-hand corner.
And this stands for writing to the file,
a.k.a save the file.
And then, to quit the file,
we can press colon q,
and q stands for quit obviously.
And then, we can just quit the file.
And then, you can type colon wq to save and exit at the same time.
But, we just wanted to show what each command did.
And then, to run the file,
you would actually have to use one of our compilers.
The default compiler for Java is javac.
As we type that in-.
Picked up Java options.
And this created an executable file called 'Hello World,' in our helloworld.class,
in our directory and we will just run
this through Java, helloWorld.class.
Oh, I think you're missing, you're not supposed.class, that's what I think.
Okay.
Yeah. I've done that a lot when programming in Java.
So, we just type in java helloWorld,
my bad, and it types in Hello World.
Yeah. There we go.
So, we just saw Andrew create and
compile and run a program using Vim in the command line.
So, I'll be going over the same thing but using Eclipse and I
guess giving you a little bit more insight on like what it's like to use an ID.
So, we already have installed it but if you want to install yourself,
you would have to type in, sudo apt-get install Eclipse.
So, this just uses the built-in package manager, APT.
We will be talking about that more later.
But for now, just look at this as just the way you install Eclipse.
So since we have already installed it,
we don't go through that step and we just type in 'Eclipse' and enter.
And as you can see already, it's in a loading screen because it takes
a lot more memory and more processing power to create.
So, that was just choosing your working directory and just choose the default one.
This is very different from Vim, it's not instant.
But you'll see why,
with all the extra tools that it allows you to use. So, I'll just take the mouse.
Yeah.
This is really taking a while.
Yeah. Honestly, for using Vim, let's see.
But what' we're going going to show you guys what it's like to use an Eclipse or an IDE.
So, here we have this program,
this already made program.
It's basically the same as what Andrew just created and or ran before.
But first, I just want to show you guys how you would create a project, just a quick way.
I remember when I first used Eclipse.
This is kind of a hard thing.
So, you just right click on the Project Explorer over here.
That's essentially just like a Follow Explorer so
they can see all the files that's in our current directory
and then create a new project and I will tell you what product you want to create.
So, we went through the Java Project and do Next.
And then just type in what project name you want.
So, let's say, "HelloProject."
And then just press Finish.
This is just some,
if you run this and see this yourselves,
this is some perspective thing.
It's kind of like a view. You really
don't need to worry about this. I will just click 'No.'
And then, there we go.
We have a new project right there.
Yeah. So, if you want,
you can go in here and go to the source file, and then,
you create a new package,
and you just create the package name.
So, 'hello.' And then, in the package,
it's a bit more steps than what Andrew had to go through
but this is just the organization that they prefer to program.
And then, just go to New,
Class. Yeah, there we go.
New class and then just the name the class. Whoops.
I think the classes are already created.
Oh, yeah. We have our example class.
I was just see, how to create a new one.
So yeah, that's how you create the class.
So, we're going into our example projects and to show you guys it already running.
So, this is our project right here.
As you can see here, it has a package.
We defined this earlier when we created it.
Not exactly right then. This is a pre-built one and we have all this.
So, I'm going to add one more line so you guys can see what it's like to use an IDE.
So as you can see here, system, if you want to add like say, "Hello Projects" also.
And then, you can see here. Yeah, that's one benefit
of an IDE. It auto-completes for you.
You can see all these things that you can add.
So, I want to choose Out.
So, you can see that's the only other option that. That just starts with 'O'.
Press enter and then you just continue.
And then, print line. Oh, I do not want to actually do print.
So, we're going to do, that was just one of
the default options because it didn't add the line and there we go.
Hello Projects Again.
Now, and as you can see here,
I didn't actually end it with a semicolon. That was on purpose.
It's just to show you to highlight one of the benefits of
this IDE is that it tells you that there's an error here.
And so that, like I mean,
how many times have you compiled a program and realized,
"Oh, I missed a semicolon somewhere."
So, this checks it for you right away.
So, you can just correct it right there.
So, we just add the semicolon. Error goes away.
Now we want to run it.
So, we just go up to run.
So, you just see this, you just click run,
and press OK. Yeah.
As you can see,
our output is right Here.
Hello World,.even on the other line.
So, this is essentially the same as what Andrew just went through.
This compiled the program for us it just ran it right away,
and even showed us output right there.
So, this is just a benefit of this ID.
Okay.
So, we all have more tutorials and the readings.
This will be provided and the course area itself.
We're not showing you all of the things that you can do
with the Eclipse and Vim as that will take some time.
So, make sure you guys read up.
Yeah. So, I guess it's been kind of a long videos.
We want to do some takeaways, just things to remember.
So, we did read and write and execute code to the command line using Vim.
That was our tool using command line.
And we also did it with IE using Eclipse.
We did the same thing,
you saw the differences,
and Andrew say... Next line.
So, there are many options of IDs.
As we mentioned earlier, Vim,
many clips aren't the only options that you
have and each one of them have their own advantages and disadvantages.
We just went over just the general advantages and disadvantages.
Yeah. So, as we saw from the demos in general,
the text-based is usually faster just because it's not as much to load.
But it is harder to learn,
as you are to learn those like just these 3 commands just to write,
save, and quit the file.
And then the GUI-based was a little slower as you saw earlier.
It took like about a minute to load
and if you're looking for like a performance based ID,
this might not be the best choice.
But it is easy to learn.
You can just get right into it.
Start coding right away and we'll be talking about this topic more in a future video.
Yeah.